doc(test-benchmark): framework description and developer guideline (#2100)
ethereum/execution-specs: docs/writing_tests/benchmarks.md

A subset of benchmark test cases run on top of stateful environments (such as bloatnet or mainnet-like setups), in order to analyze how state size, structure, and access patterns influence performance. These tests may (1) pre-deploy contracts (2) construct initial storage state (3) Interact with pre-deployed contracts via stub addresses.

Such tests are located under `./tests/benchmark/stateful`. When running these tests, users should specify the `stateful` flag as `-m stateful`, or the test would be ignored, even the path is specified correctly.

### Compute Benchmarks

Other benchmark tests do not require any pre-state configuration. These benchmarks could be run even without pre-deployed contracts or initialized storage.

These tests are located under `./tests/benchmark/compute.` When running these cases, users should specify the `benchmark` marker like `-m benchmark`, or the test would be ignored, even the path is specified correctly.

**Note:** Using `-m benchmark` under `tests/benchmark/stateful`, or `-m stateful` under `tests/benchmark/compute`, will cause the tests to be ignored. Make sure the user-provided flag matches the directory of the test being executed.

> **Note:** Benchmark tests are now only available starting from the `Prague` fork. Tests targeting earlier forks (`Cancun` or prior) are not supported in benchmark mode.

Reviewer: Might be nice to use the MkDocs formatting for "note" here:
```suggestion
!!! note "Fork Support"
    All benchmark tests start from the Prague fork. Earlier forks such as Cancun are not supported. Fork support for forks greater than Prague is a work in progress.
```

## Benchmark Modes

### Fixed Opcode Count Mode

In this mode, users either:

> - First generate an opcode-count configuration mapping file via `uv run benchmark_parser`, then run the benchmark test with the `--fixed-opcode-count` flag **without parameters**, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First generate an opcode-count configuration mapping file via `uv run benchmark_parser`, then run the benchmark tests with the `--fixed-opcode-count` flag **without parameters**, or
```
